[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So many of us struggle with
stress in our daily lives.
If we don't deal with the stress
and stored emotional trauma,
it can be impossible to
lose weight and keep it off.
That's why I'm delighted to
share this program with you.
Tapping is a simple and
powerful healing modality
that's proven incredibly
useful in relieving
stress and resolving trauma.
And once you learn this
technique, it's yours forever.
My colleague Carol Look and I
created this in-depth program
to help you access and deal
with the emotional issues that
may be the source of your
weight struggles and help
you end them once and for all.
Thanks for joining us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is David.
I'm 52, and I'm from New Jersey.
>> My name is Grail,
and I'm 54 years old.
And I'm from Amity
Harbor in New York.
>> My name is Ellen.
I'm 29, and I live
in Washington DC.
>> I'm Jordana.
I'm 25 years old, and
I'm from Manhattan.
>> I have a business
that is 25 years old.
And for the past five years,
we've been struggling.
We're at a point where we're
holding it on by a thread.
>> I'm struggling with a lot
of different stress issues--
work-related, finance-related,
relationship-related, just
general life, what on Earth
am I doing, question-related.
>> My name is Kari.
I'm 28.
And I'm from
Glassboro, New Jersey.
>> Hi.
My name is Marlen.
I'm a 66-year-old.
And I come originally
from the Netherlands.
>> Living on the South
Shore of Long Island,
I was affected pretty
dramatically by Hurricane
Sandy.
And when the storm
hit, it basically
took out the whole first
floor of my home, which
is where I had, a
year before, moved
my elderly mom in with me.
>> My name is Saeed Nigeeb.
I'm 19 years old.
And I'm from the beautiful city
of Vancouver, British Columbia.
>> My name is Sally, and
I'm from Connecticut.
And I'm 55 years old.
>> I'm Mariam.
I'm 40.
And I'm from Brooklyn, New York.
>> Right now, my main
stressor is from school.
Late nights, long hours, papers.
>> I think that, if I
recollect over my life,
that the times that I've
struggled the most with
my weight are the times that
I can point to and say, oh,
I was definitely stressed out.
>> Well, I've been
trying to find a job,
which is very difficult.
Financially, it's kind of hard.
So I really need to find work.
>> My name is Bridget.
I'm 55 years old.
And I live in Long Island.
>> My name is Jon.
I am 37 years old.
And I'm from Yonkers, New York.
>> My name is Jaqueline.
I'm 44.
And I'm from Westchester County.
>> I'm working on two things.
The first is ways to compensate
for my emotional eating
and then also ways to
maintain a work-life balance.
>> I wish I really knew
what the main stress issue.
I feel stressed a lot.
I have anxiety in my body daily.
I really firmly believe
that weight and stress
are intimately involved.
>> Being a firefighter is
particularly stressful for many
reasons, mostly being just
the day-to-day turmoil that
we're dealing with.
I tend to tune myself out.
And in that, I don't pay
attention when I'm eating.
I don't pay attention
to a lot of things
that are going on around me.
And not paying
attention to myself
leads to me gaining weight
and not taking care of myself
properly.
>> So Carol, thanks very
much for joining us.
>> Thank you, Jon.
It's a pleasure.
And I love sharing this
with everybody that I can,
because it's been so useful
in my life and for my clients.
So I'll tell you a little
bit about my background.
I was trained as a
traditional psychotherapist,
regular one-to-one
therapy and group therapy.
And I worked in an
addictions agency.
So I was a professional
in helping people
stop drinking and drugging.
And we also worked with
the family members.
And of course, what would happen
is people would stop drinking
and they would start
gaining weight.
Or they would start
picking up something else,
because we weren't dealing
with the bottom line--
their emotions and their
feelings and their stress,
because in beginning
counseling, you're not
supposed to go to the biggies.
You're supposed to
leave those until later,
when someone has some traction.
So sure enough, people
would gain weight
and be unhappy about that.
I was working in the agency.
And I was working in a
private practice as well.
And I was frustrated
with the results.
Talk therapy is
wonderful when it works.
But I like results,
and I wanted more.
So I got extensive
training in hypnosis.
And I thought that was really
exciting about the brain
and how we work in our
left and right brain.
And someone in my class said--
my training-- said, you
think this is exciting?
Wait until you try
this new tapping thing.
Now, tapping has been
around for 30 years.
So it wasn't that new.
This was in 1997.
So I took my first couple
of courses in tapping,
got all excited about it.
And I would say to my clients I
was trained in this new stress
relief technique.
Would you be willing
to do five minutes
at the end of your session?
If it doesn't work,
you don't like it,
I'll give you the five minutes.
And so there was no loss.
So I started doing that
with the weight loss
and the quit smoking people.
And sure enough, the next
week, they would come back
and say, this is weird.
What did you do?
I did it by myself.
I feel different.
It was just fascinating.
Everything changed.
So then I started moving
over from the hypnosis field
into the tapping.
And for 17 years, I've
done mostly tapping.
>> So what exactly is tapping?
And why does it work?
So what we do is
we borrowed from
traditional Chinese medicine.
So acupuncturists-- there
are meridians or pathways,
circuits of energy--
they call it chi--
that flow through our body.
And Chinese doctors
believe that in order
to have health,
mental and physical,
you need to have a smooth
flowing of this energy
or electricity.
And if you have any symptoms--
cravings, stress, insomnia,
outbursts of anger--
if you have any
of those symptoms,
it means there's some blockage.
So we don't use needles.
We use a tapping
motion, very light
tapping, on the same points
that an acupuncturist--
>> So you're saying when an
acupuncturist will put a needle
here, a needle there, and
it'll unblock this energy flow
and that's how
you get healthier.
But you're not doing that.
You're actually just taking that
point and you're tapping on it.
And by tapping on it,
it somehow unblocking
the flow of this energy.
>> So we take the primary
meridians, the circuitry,
and we tap on the end point.
So there are points that
are easier to get to.
>> And these are points that
have been mapped out through
Chinese medicine over
thousands of years.
>> Thousands of years ago.
>> Is that the idea?
>> Yes.
>> So you're taking
those points,
and you're taking
the end points and--
>> And just tapping
very lightly on them.
>> And by tapping, it's
somehow releasing the blockage
that's caused by the
stress or the pain.
>> Yes.
What they think is
going on is-- let's
say you have a
stressful situation.
And it's making
you eat and choose
food or alcohol or cigarettes,
whatever your drug of choice
is.
What I would say to you
is focus on that stress.
And in that moment, Jon
would call up the file.
He'd open the document.
And while that's open,
we do the tapping,
which seems to send signals
to that part of the brain
to calm it down.
So we've now paired the stress
with a stress relief technique.
Now, I think there's
more research to be done.
I think we don't entirely
know why it's working.
But for, I guess, 28,
29 years, maybe longer,
practitioners have been
having incredible results
in all fields, all challenges--
emotional, physical, mental,
spiritual.
>> See, for me, I love
a technique like this.
Because even though
we don't 100%
know why it works, because we
don't understand this energy
channels.
Because let's face
it, modern medicine,
we don't even acknowledge
that we have these life force
meridians that have been
studied for thousands of years
by other cultures.
But even though we don't
fully understand it,
it works really well.
And there's no downside.
And that's what I like
about a technique like this,
because, at the
very least, you're
going to get a little
bit of stress reduction.
You're going to be calmer.
At the very most,
you're going to break
through some massive
trauma that's
been blocking you or sabotaging
you or causing weight gain
and causing pain in
every area of life.
I love situations like that,
where you have all upside
and no downside.
And interesting you
talk about hypnosis,
because I started trying
hypnosis for weight loss
and got a little bit
of success with that.
And the hypnotherapist
introduced me
to the tapping technique.
And we actually had
a tapping session.
And this was back in 2001,
when no one ever heard of it.
I thought it was
the weirdest thing.
And I was really amazed that we
did these little simple things.
And what would happen is
we'd talk about an issue.
I'm stressed out at work.
So this stress
thing, we do this.
I'm stressed.
Duh, duh, duh,.
We do this thing.
And then it would
bring another issue up
that's something
with my relationship.
And we'd do that.
And that would come up.
And then the next thing--
and it was like layers.
And each time it got the
one stress out of the way,
the next thing would come up
until there was nothing left.
And then I felt different.
I felt different
about the situation.
When I tried to think
about my working
relationships with my business
partner, it didn't bother me.
When I tried to think
about the thing that
was bothering me
in my relationship,
it didn't bother me anymore.
And it's almost
like it was blocked,
like my mind didn't go there.
And the emotional
reaction didn't go there.
And because the emotional
reaction didn't go,
the chemistry wasn't
there anymore.
And it made it much easier
for me to lose weight.
And that set me on a
path where I learned
how to deal with stress.
I started doing meditation.
I started doing visualization.
I started doing yoga and Qigong
and all these different things
to help deal with stress.
And that put me on a path.
And it wasn't until I did that
that I was able to then lose
over 200 pounds.
And at that time, it
was really effortless.
Stress doesn't just
cause you to eat.
It causes chemistry in your
body, this whole cascade
of chemicals, that actually
forces you to gain weight.
It actually tricks
your body into thinking
you're starving to death.
You could have 200 pounds of
excess weight on your body.
And the chemicals, the
chemistry in your body,
actually tricks your brain
into thinking you have no fat.
How does your brain
know how fat you are?
Did you ever think
about that for a second?
Your brain's here,
and your body's here.
How does your brain
know how fat you are?
Well, there's signals.
Your fat cells send
signals to your brain.
The more fat you have,
the more signals you get.
And so when there's
a lot of signals,
it's a hormone called leptin.
So when there's a lot
of leptin, your brain
says, oh, look at
all that leptin.
We have must be loaded with fat.
Let's lose weight.
Your metabolism speeds up.
You're not hungry.
Blah, blah, blah.
All these things happen.
You lose weight effortlessly.
But a scenario takes place,
because of stress and trauma,
where the brain
cannot hear leptin.
So you can have 200
pounds of excess weight.
You can have leptin
all over the place.
And your brain's
just not hearing it.
So imagine this
scenario for a second.
Imagine you've got 200 pounds
of excess weight on you.
Your brain thinks you're
starving, because the chemistry
is getting interrupted.
The signals are
getting interrupted.
And the brain's not able
to hear how much weight you
have on you.
And then, all of a sudden,
that chemistry goes away.
It's like you wake up
one day, and your brain
realizes you've got 200
pounds of excess weight.
What happens?
You're brain goes,
oh my god, where
did all this weight come from?
How did I get 200 pounds?
It's overnight to your brain.
That's really what's happening.
And you're not hungry anymore.
And so, for me, when I
say that losing the weight
was effortless, I mean
it was effortless,
because my body didn't
want it anymore.
My brain could hear
the chemistry properly.
And the weight just
fell off of me.
And that comes from
dealing with stress.
Now, weight can come from
a lot of different issues.
But we all have stress.
We all have emotional trauma.
And those, the chemistry
that takes place in your body
during those times,
causes this interruption,
causes the problem.
So if you try to lose weight
without addressing this,
you are driving with
the emergency brake on.
And so, for me, this
tapping is so beautiful,
because it's five minutes,
10 minutes at home.
That's it, once you
learn the technique.
And you've got a
tool for getting
your brain and your body to
work together so that weight
loss can be effortless.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So step number
1-- choose a target.
You have to have a target
to aim this technique at.
And a target can be an emotion.
It can be a symptom--
if you have migraine headaches.
It can be an event,
a memory of an event.
When we work on trauma,
that's what we do.
And you want to choose
something very clear,
not, oh, I have low
self-esteem or I'm overweight,
but I have high anxiety.
Or I'm very stressed out.
So you choose a target.
And you measure how you
feel about it, how strong,
how upsetting the target
makes you feel on a zero
to 10 point scale.
So for this first exercise,
I'm going to talk about stress
and so that everyone
can participate.
So if we're doing
stress, I want all of you
to think of a particular
stressor in your life.
So work, home, weight,
body, something.
And when you think of
it, how upset do you get?
How intense is it, zero to 10?
>> And if it's zero, you
probably shouldn't be thinking
about it.
Think about something else.
>> If it's zero-- exactly.
>> There's no reason to
do a tapping at zero.
That's what we're trying out.
>> So then we start tapping on
what's called the karate chop
point.
If you've ever seen a
karate master on television
chop a block in half,
it's right on that part
of the hand, either hand.
And we start there.
And this is the part
that some people--
they feel a little
awkward with it.
But what we do is
we name the problem.
And in this case, we'll
just say I have this stress.
OK?
We'll just make that blanket.
Even though I have this stress,
I deeply and completely accept
myself.
I deeply and completely
respect myself.
I'm OK anyway.
Something that helps you stop
pushing against yourself.
Part of the stress for
people with weight loss
is, I hate myself.
I'm not doing it well.
I haven't done it well.
I failed again.
I'm ashamed.
So we just say, here's
where I am, and I'm OK.
So we start there.
So you all have
chosen your stress
that you're thinking about
and a number connected to it.
So we start here.
And we say--
>> And we're tapping
with all four fingers.
>> Again, some of you have
already learned this before.
And you see people doing this
with both karate chop points.
I'm right-handed.
And I learned the
tapping this way.
So I tap like this,
my four fingers
on that particular
karate chop's point.
OK?
And then you just repeat this.
You say, even though
I have this stress.
>> Even though I
have this stress.
>> Everybody can say it.
Even though I have this stress.
>> Even though I
have this stress.
>> I deeply and
completely accept myself.
>> And if that's hard to say,
that's information for you.
That's pretty good feedback
if you can't say that.
And we do it two or three times.
Even though I have
this intense stress.
>> Even though I have
>> And it's really bothering me.
>> I deeply and profoundly
love and accept myself.
>> Do it a third time.
Even though I have
this profound stress.
>> Even though I have
>> I deeply and completely love
and accept who I am anyway.
>> OK.
Then we start tapping.
I use two fingers
of my dominant hand.
And we start tapping on
these specific points
that they mapped out.
Roger Callahan originally used
these points in the tapping way
back when with
Thought Field Therapy.
So the first point
is at the beginning
of the hair of either eyebrow.
So it's not your third eye.
It's not right at your nose.
It's the beginning of the hair.
>> In the middle?
Or on the other side?
>> No.
Beginning of the hair.
>> Of either side?
>> Yep, either side.
You can do your right side of
your body or the left side.
It doesn't matter.
They've actually done some
tests with lighting us up
while we're tapping.
So go ahead, right here.
The first is called
the eyebrow endpoint.
While we're tapping here,
we tune into the problem.
We say the problem so we
don't get distracted by noise
and thinking of other thoughts.
We want to be in it.
You want to be in it in
order to move things.
So start tapping at
the eyebrow point
and say, this intense stress.
>> This intense stress.
>> Good.
The next point is the side
of the eye, either one.
It's little bone right here.
They're all on bones.
And you can do either side.
This intense stress in my life.
>> This intense
stress in my life.
>> The next point
is under your eye.
They call it the bony
orbit, right there.
>> Right in the middle?
>> Yeah, right in the middle.
This intense stress
I'm dealing with.
>> This intense stress
>> And these are all critical
endpoints of the meridians,
the circuits or the pathways.
The next point is your upper
lip, right below your nose.
This stress I'm dealing with.
>> This stress I'm dealing with.
>> And we're just tapping
lightly and just tapping long
enough to say the phrase,
whatever we're focused on.
The next one's called
your chin point.
And it's actually above
your chin, below your lip,
right in the crease there.
This stress I'm dealing with.
>> This stress I'm dealing with.
>> The next point is called
your collarbone point.
In Chinese
acupuncture, it's K 27.
It's right at the bottom,
those funny little knobs
there that come down.
>> Show me
>> So you would be
right-- it's right below.
So it's right there.
Do you feel that?
>> OK.
So there's a bone right here.
>> There's a bone.
The knobs right there.
>> And I go underneath it.
>> Under and a little
bit to the side.
>> So you feel the bone?
Feel the little knobs,
and go right under.
>> You feel the bone, and
then you go right under.
It's a soft spot.
>> A little tender.
>> It's tender.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Or if it's easier for you, just
put your hand out in a palm
and go where the knot of
a man's tie would fall.
And you're covering
both of them.
So you can do that or you can
just do tapping like that.
So this is the next one,
the collarbone point.
And we just say it again.
This intense stress.
>> This intense stress.
>> The next point
is under the arm.
Imagine you have a seam going up
your body left to right, about
four inches below your armpit.
See that?
Tap right there.
It might be tender
for some of you.
Another acupuncture endpoint.
This intense stress.
>> This intense stress.
>> And then we end on
the top of the head.
Now, some people start
on the top of the head.
It doesn't matter.
We're just getting
the main meridian.
>> The very top.
>> Yeah, very top.
Important place where
many acupuncture points
come together.
We tap around there
in a little circle.
And we just name
the problem again.
This intense stress
I'm dealing with.
>> This intense stress
>> Good.
Then you just take a deep
breath to keep moving
the energy along the pathways.
And there's no right or wrong.
We go back to the number and the
issue you addressed and brought
up and measure it again.
So you weren't
measuring something.
But you all were
So tune back in.
Think about it again.
Don't change topics.
How's your number?
Did you have any questions about
when we were doing it with you?
>> I'm feeling a difference.
And I wasn't--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> You're feeling a difference.
And I didn't even measure him.
And that's the other thing
that happens in group work,
is that people say, oh,
this isn't my issue.
I'll just let them do it.
And I say, hey.
Hey, wait a minute.
Something happened.
So remember, the
mechanics of it,
we're accessing the circuitry
of energy or electricity
in your body and
calming you down.
And even my most skeptical
clients would say, OK, well,
maybe I feel a little better.
Or they'd say, physically, they
feel a little more relaxed.
So that's the least
benefit you'll get.
>> That's why I say that,
in a situation like this,
using a technique like this,
at the very, very least--
and I'm talking
rock bottom least,
you're going to lower
your stress level.
And simply by doing
that, it's going
to make it infinitely easier
for you to lose weight.
That's the rock bottom least
that you can expect from it.
And to me, as a worst case
scenario, that's perfect.
I have one question.
Do we just keep saying
this intense stress?
Or do we say other
things as we're tapping?
>> Well, in the very
beginning of tapping,
it was ultra simple.
Let's say you chose an anxiety.
You would say, this anxiety,
this anxiety, this anxiety.
And when the person is
sitting in front of me,
they've told me a little
bit more about their story.
So I might say, this intense
stress, oh, it really
bothers me.
That boss is really annoying.
Oh, I can't believe I'm going--
>> So you're not telling
their story now because you
don't know the story.
You're trying to make it.
So if we don't know the story--
>> You just say
the same phrasing.
>> This intense stress.
And you think about it.
>> Yes.
And it's called
a reminder phrase
to make sure you're tuned in
and not getting distracted.
So you can just
say the same thing.
This stress, this stress.
>> So later, when we deal
with a specific issues,
we'll get into a
story a little bit.
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> As you just saw, we gathered
a diverse group of participants
in an intensive tapping
workshop in New York City.
Now you'll see
sessions featuring
four of these
participants, with plenty
of learning tips along the
way from Carol and myself.
So let's get started.
And please, tap along
with us at home.
>> What's a priority for
you to work on, to clear,
to bring down so that you
are better around your stress
levels, your physiology, and
any kind of eating habits that
happen?
>> Battling myself.
>> Battling yourself?
>> Myself, yeah.
>> OK.
Tell us a little
bit more about that.
>> I originally picked up
Jon's book because I was having
issues with my weight.
And it was a yo-yo effect.
I never was
overweight as a child.
But as I got older,
I started to gain.
And I was wondering
where it was coming from.
>> You'd go up and
down and then up and--
>> Yeah.
It would go up in the
winters, down in the summers--
as always, trying to drop weight
for the summer, look better.
But then, with my career,
I started noticing
I needed to be healthier.
I needed to get
this weight off me,
because they kept putting more
weight on me year to year.
I needed to drop weight,
to become lighter.
And I just started noticing
more looking in the mirror
and not being happy with myself.
And then, through injury,
through the career,
I would gain, because I
would get lazy and just
the stresses of everyday life.
And I'm just tired of it.
I know I don't have much,
really, to get rid of anymore.
But I just want to be
comfortable with myself.
>> I'm a single mother.
I was separated in 2011.
And the father of
my children had
been involved with his
children until November
of this past year,
where he left,
went to live with another
woman and her children.
And he's completely not involved
with my children anymore.
So I am completely the only
one taking care of my children
emotionally, physically,
mentally, the whole situation.
My daughter had a really
tough time, back in January,
and ended up needing
to be hospitalized.
So the stress of
taking care and being
the only person
financially and otherwise
is really, really big.
>> Well, I'm in a very
competitive industry.
To get into the industry is very
difficult. And once you're in,
it's like that hedonic treadmill
of you've never hit the goal.
There's always a new one
set before you've managed
to settle into the first layer.
And it's a very
aggressive, successful team
that I work for.
And I'm thrilled
that I'm with them.
But sometimes, when they
pass on the work to my level,
it gets a bit condescending
and maybe one person
in particular who
you feel like almost
like you're being attacked.
He can zero in.
He knows what makes
you uncomfortable.
And he uses that to
drive you harder,
because in his mind, that's
what brings productivity-- fear,
or just that kind of aggression.
And it's gotten to the point
I can't eat in the office.
I can't eat around the team.
I just feel very like somebody
is keeping tabs all the time.
It's so stressful.
>> I've been a caregiver
my entire life.
And it gives me a feeling
of control and comfort
by doing that.
And I'm good at it.
And then, sometimes,
I find myself
being very anxious when
things I can't control happen.
And I feel like my
world is falling apart
when that happens.
So I'm constantly
under stress, because I
can't control everything.
And then, more
personally, my mom and I
have lived together
for a lot of years.
And she's much older now.
And I feel sometimes like I'm so
worried about her that I don't
give her a chance to
breathe, because I'm always
worried about her health.
And I don't want to
do that to her either.
So I have all these conflicts.
>> And anything else
about keeping the weight
on as protection, as Jon said?
What would you say about that?
>> I have a lot of trust issues.
>> Trust issues.
OK.
So that makes sense to
you, though, why then you
would feel the need for
the protection in addition
to the stress and the anxiety?
>> I'm not sure specifically
what, but definitely.
>> OK.
Just tune into that
without the specifics.
Right?
I have trust issues
is a specific target,
because we can tell it
brings up something for you.
>> Yeah.
>> So say again, I have
these trust issues.
>> I have this trust issues.
>> Zero to 10.
>> Mhm.
>> 10.
Yeah, OK.
>> 10 hundred.
OK.
We're going to just see
if we can get that down
with the tapping,
because that is probably
coursing through your body
as anxiety all the time.
I'm going to say some
pretty strong statements.
And I want you to measure
the truth of them.
>> OK.
>> I hate myself.
>> Zero to 10?
>> Six.
So you live with a six.
That's horrible, intolerable.
You hate yourself for your
weight and other things,
or just the weight?
>> Other things.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you want to say
anything about those?
>> [SIGHS]
>> You don't have to.
We can do whatever you want.
But that self-hatred,
the self-loathing,
will keep pounds on forever.
>> Not doing enough.
>> You feel like
you don't do enough.
Past or current?
>> All of the above.
>> All of the above?
>> Yeah.
Current.
>> Current.
>> Yeah.
>> So pick an incident or
an area where you think,
I'm not enough.
I'm not doing enough.
Pick that.
So we target one part,
so it's not too much.
You have a lot to choose from.
>> It just seems like my life,
I tend to take on everything
in large scales.
>> So more guilt
and responsibility.
>> Yeah.
Let's not have one kid.
Let's have four.
Let's not buy a
single family house.
Let's buy multi-family.
Let's not join the
fire department
and go to an easy company.
Let's go to the hardest company.
>> OK.
Where does that come from?
>> Probably my
past, the childhood.
>> And do you know what
feelings it comes from
in your childhood?
Because I can make a guess,
but I don't know for you.
>> Trying to do more.
>> Because usually people who do
that, to do the next, the next,
is because they
feel so inadequate.
That's where the--
it's not healthy drive.
It's too much Right?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
So let's get very clear about
what we're going to measure,
OK?
Think of the past part.
I didn't do enough.
I wasn't enough.
See what resonates more.
I didn't do enough
or I wasn't enough.
>> Wasn't enough.
>> I wasn't enough.
OK.
Do you have an incident or
a decade or a time period?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah?
You do.
OK.
Zero to 10, I wasn't enough.
How high is that
about that incident
that you're thinking of?
>> Nine.
What else is an issue
for you that blocks you
from being able to
release the weight
or that keeps you
protecting yourself
or that keeps you feeling safe?
>> I think I'm lonely.
I feel like I'm all alone in
taking care of my children.
And I think I felt
lonely in my marriage,
because it wasn't
a good marriage.
So I don't really feel
more lonely that he's gone.
But I think I feel lonely.
>> And that's what
I was going to say.
How long have you felt lonely?
Not since 2011.
>> No.
>> A long time.
>> It's been a really long time.
It's been a really long
time feeling lonely.
Yeah.
>> OK.
Say it loud.
I just feel lonely.
>> I just feel lonely.
>> Zero to 10.
>> I'm probably a nine.
>> Nine.
OK.
As far as the target,
he's pressuring me.
He's pushing me.
What would be the language
that would really fit you?
>> It sounds funny, but I feel
like sometimes he scares me.
He zeros in so much.
And the attacks get so personal.
>> OK.
OK.
We'll call him your boss.
Is that enough?
Or just to call him--
>> He's somebody in the team.
>> On the team.
OK.
>> He's pretty high
up on the teams.
>> OK.
All right.
Even though he attacks me.
>> Even though he attacks me.
>> And zeros in on me.
>> He zeros in on me.
>> And it terrifies me.
>> And it feels intrusive.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I'm
trying to handle it.
>> Even though
it's really scary.
>> He's so aggressive.
>> And he really gets to me.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I feel about it.
>> Even though I
don't feel any space.
>> Or any freedom.
>> Because he's always hovering.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how upset it makes me.
>> I wish he would go away.
>> I wish he would
leave me alone.
>> Leave me alone.
>> You're in my space.
>> Stop being so aggressive.
>> Stop attacking me.
>> Get away.
>> You're bothering me.
>> You're so intrusive.
>> Stop zeroing in.
>> Leave me alone.
>> I know you're smart.
>> But fear is not
working anymore.
>> It's not making
me more productive.
>> It's just scaring me.
>> And I can't even eat
in the office anymore.
>> OK.
Take a breath.
So what we want to do is
reduce that [INAUDIBLE] daily.
How many hours a
week are you working?
>> A lot.
>> Right.
Clearly.
So we reduce that
so he doesn't have
this overpowering, threatening
sense about him to you.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Does that feel any better,
just saying those words
and describing it?
>> Yeah.
>> You had said hovering
to me on the break.
So I used that word.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah?
How's it feel to you?
>> A little bit more tranquil.
>> Little more tranquil.
Good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Typically, when you're not
able to deal with your feelings
for past or present, there's
a safety issue that comes up.
And we talk about this
safety issue a lot.
And I lived through this.
When I was working in New
York, OK, I was stressed out.
And that was causing
me to gain weight.
But I was also in a
really, really violent
working experience.
I had a business
partner that was just
relentlessly angry and violent.
And it triggered some
stuff in me as a kid,
because I had someone in my
life that was very abusive, very
big, and very violent.
And so my business partner never
beat me or anything like that.
But he had all the traits.
>> Threatening.
>> Extremely threatening.
But what happened was I worked
with this guy for 15 years.
And the whole time I
was working with him,
I got heavier and heavier.
And it was like I was
putting distance--
because we worked in
the same trading desk,
almost this close.
And he's angry all the time.
And he's putting out all
this negative energy.
And so the weight
was like a buffer
to that energy and a
buffer to the anger.
And eventually, I got so
big that I wasn't afraid
of him anymore.
I felt like I was
twice his size.
I could squash him.
>> Protected.
Protected.
>> I could sit on
him like a pancake.
I wasn't afraid of him anymore.
But the weight did that.
It created this
kind of protection.
>> Yes.
>> And for a lot of people,
especially if you've been
abused as a kid--
I see this a lot with
women, that weight
came on as a result
of that as protection.
It's a buffer
between me and you.
I'm afraid of you.
I need this.
>> Two questions I ask that
always reveal something.
What's the upside to
keeping the weight on?
And they say, don't be silly.
I've been trying to lose.
I know you have.
What's the upside?
Oh.
And that sometimes leads them
to say I feel safer with it.
I feel protected.
What's the downside
to losing the weight?
There's no downside.
Don't be silly.
There must be a
downside, or else you
would've been able to do it.
And then they can get
to, because the last time
I was there--
I had someone in your 50s say,
the last time I was at my goal
weight, I got pregnant.
And she said, clearly, I'm not
going to get pregnant again.
And it worked.
And it was perfect, because
it was in a workshop.
She said, clearly, I have a
connection to getting pregnant
again, which I don't want to.
And she said it's not
medically possible.
But she had an association.
>> Right.
But a lot of people
have an association
with being attractive.
>> And attention.
>> And sometimes
it's [INAUDIBLE]
because they're in a marriage.
And they want to stay faithful.
And if they get all
of this attention--
there's all these
underlying issues.
>> Yes.
So the question is, what will
happen when you get there?
Because again, everyone
runs around saying
I want to get there.
Really?
Are you sure you
want to get there?
>> Exactly.
>> Then you ask them--
>> It's the exact
same thing we do.
Now, once you're dealing
with it, feelings
around the safety issue, now
what we usually do is we,
with visualization, we give
them a way of feeling safe.
Some angel wings wrapped
around them, a column of light,
a surrogate for the weight.
Is there something
that we can do
with tapping where not only
do we get rid of the feelings
about feeling unsafe, but
actually make them feel safe?
>> Yes.
How I address it is that--
so usually this is
connected to abuse.
So they were small.
They were a child.
And they were
traumatized or abused.
And what I'll say is, you
were how old back then?
Six.
Right.
Well, of course you can't do
anything with a 250 pound man
when you're six.
And so we address the past.
I was unsafe back then.
I couldn't do anything.
He threatened me.
Now how old are you?
And the person will say, I'm 42.
How do you feel?
Oh.
Safety is up to them now.
It's not about being six.
So they start to, instead
of globalize everything--
I'm never going to be safe
if I take 40 pounds off.
They start saying, oh, come
to think-- oh, I'm safe now,
because I'm an adult. But when
you've been abused as a child--
>> And you do that
through tapping?
>> Yes.
>> Like, through a reversal?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Start with the past.
>> Yeah.
>> So we have the past, the
present, and the future.
So they're afraid to lose
weight in the future because
of their past.
>> Right.
So we start with the past.
>> Even though I wasn't
safe back then and I
couldn't protect myself, I'm
afraid it's going to happen
again.
Picture yourself in the future.
What would you do
differently now?
Well, it would never happen now.
Why not?
Because I'm an adult, and
I take care of myself.
So it starts to change.
So they have to do some, with
their thoughts and feelings,
they have to get back into--
>> And you find that that's an
effective way of making them
feel safe and relieving
that initial trauma?
>> Yes.
And also as an adult,
if they're carrying
40 to 200 extra
pounds on themselves,
they don't feel safe.
And so I say, how safe
do you actually feel?
And they say, I still
don't feel safe,
even with the extra weight.
Their boss--
>> Which is usually the case.
>> So we get that feeling in the
present down as far as we can.
Then the weight
has a place to go.
You can't release it if
it's your protection.
>> Right.
But basically anytime a
safety issue comes up,
you always look for
it and address it.
And even though I
don't feel safe--
always look for that.
And I would go as far as to say,
if you've had serious weight
issues your whole
life or if you could
target your weight issues
to any specific event,
always look for that.
Always look for the
safety issue first.
Try to get as far
down into that issue.
And correct me if I'm wrong.
If you can get to
that safety issue,
you're dealing with
the real issue, then.
>> Yes.
And if you don't get to
it, no matter what you do--
>> That's our experience.
>> The weight can't come
off, because it's a survival
mechanism.
>> Exactly.
>> And that's the only
thing humans care about.
>> Well, bodies.
>> Protecting themselves.
>> The only things our
bodies care about is--
>> Is the safety.
>> So we agree so much on that.
>> Beautiful.
>> We're speaking
the same language.
>> High five.
>> Even though I have
these trust issues.
>> And I know they're
connected to my weight.
>> I deeply.
>> And profoundly.
>> Accept myself anyway.
>> Even though I have
these trust issues.
>> And it's hard
to accept myself.
>> I choose to accept that
I'm doing the best I can.
>> OK.
One more time.
Even though I have
these trust issues.
>> Even though I have
>> From childhood.
>> I can feel it.
>> I can.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I feel.
>> OK.
Now, just while you
keep tapping there,
do you want to say
anything else about it?
Because it seemed like
you were tuning in more.
Totally up to you.
>> I'm just afraid.
>> Afraid.
Afraid of what?
>> I don't know.
>> OK.
OK.
So go right to the eyebrow.
I'm afraid of what
could come up.
>> I'm afraid of
what could come up.
what might come up.
>> I'm afraid of
>> Under the eye.
I have this fear and anxiety.
>> I have this fear and anxiety.
>> About my trust issues.
>> I'm worried about
these trust issues.
>> My anxiety about
this trust issues.
>> I'm worried about
these trust issues.
>> Just the topic
makes me anxious.
>> Eyebrow.
I feel so anxious
about trust issues.
>> I feel so anxious
>> I'm afraid of
what could come up.
what might come up.
>> I'm afraid of
>> Under the nose.
I don't want to
feel out of control.
>> I don't want to
>> I have all this fear
of what could come up.
>> Fear about
these trust issues.
>> Fear and anxiety.
>> Top of the head.
This fear and anxiety.
>> Fear and anxiety.
>> Good.
And then take a deep breath.
[INHALE]
[EXHALE]
So that was a little unusual
about our target statement.
These trust issues
was kind of broad.
But what came up immediately
was you don't want--
that scares you, just admitting
that there's trust issues.
That's where I was talking about
the anxiety with the tapping.
So see if you can go back in.
Just say the phrase, I know
I have these trust issues.
>> I know I have
these trust issues.
That was a 10 hundred.
How are you doing now?
>> It's still really high.
But I could say words.
>> I could see it.
There was shifting there.
Now the anxiety, I have anxiety
about these trust issues.
>> I have anxiety about
these trust issues.
It's a little bit less.
>> A little bit less.
OK.
I'm afraid of what
could come up.
>> I'm afraid of
what could come up.
I'm still afraid of
>> So I'm fishing around for
the right language that really
meets her and it really feels
like a bull's eye to you.
And the highest one
right now, I think,
is I'm afraid of
what could come up.
>> Yeah.
>> Right?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I just want to be
clear on this one thing.
So if I'm feeling like a
failure, do I say that?
Even though I feel
like a failure.
Or do I say, even
though I am a failure.
Because all these things
are so foreign to me,
I never say these things.
>> OK.
So two options.
Let's say you feel
like a failure.
>> Or you feel
like you've failed.
>> In a project.
So you think about the project.
Ooh, I have that awful feeling.
I feel like a failure.
How does feel like a failure,
how does that make you feel?
Like a failure.
No.
That's not a feeling.
How does it make you feel?
I feel ashamed.
I feel ashamed because I
think I failed at that.
>> OK.
That's a much better statement.
You don't say generalized
judgment statements
like I'm a failure.
You don't say things like that.
>> Well, that ends
up being a belief.
Because beliefs end
up being compulsive,
we have to live them out.
So I'm convinced I'm a failure.
I believe I failed.
I believe I'm a loser.
You can do that under
the belief category.
It's always more powerful
to go to the emotion.
Even though I wasn't
enough back then.
>> Even though I wasn't
>> And I've been punishing
myself ever since.
>> And I've been
punishing myself.
>> Ever since.
I deeply and profoundly.
>> I deeply and profoundly.
>> Respect the efforts
I've been making.
>> Even though I wasn't
enough back then.
>> And I'm not sure I'll
ever forgive myself.
>> Not sure [INAUDIBLE].
>> I accept who I am now.
>> Even though I punish
myself about back then.
>> I have an idea
that I wasn't enough.
I'm convinced.
>> I have an idea
that I wasn't enough.
And I'm convinced.
>> I deeply and profoundly.
>> Accept my feelings.
>> Eyebrow.
I wasn't enough back then.
>> I wasn't enough back then.
>> I didn't do enough.
>> I wasn't enough.
>> And I've been trying
to make up for it.
>> Trying to make up for it.
>> My whole life.
No wonder I'm so stressed out.
No wonder my weight
goes up and down.
>> The weight goes up and down.
>> All connected
to that past issue.
>> That I wasn't enough.
>> I didn't do enough.
>> Do enough.
>> I wasn't enough.
>> I didn't do enough.
>> I feel inadequate.
>> And I've been trying to
make up for it ever since.
>> I've been trying to
>> That rings true, then.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm trying to make
up for it ever since.
>> No wonder I'm exhausted.
>> And totally stressed out.
>> Totally stressed out.
>> Good.
Anybody have some Kleenex?
>> [EXHALE] Hoo.
>> Yeah.
>> [SIGH] Thank you, Jon.
>> So you get the connection
of all of the above, right?
Past, the current, what
you're doing in your life,
and then struggling with
the body [INAUDIBLE] Right?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Anything else come up that would
be good for us to know about
or that you want
to tell us about?
Any of these issues?
We're just going
to keep tapping.
But I want to know
if there's anything
else you want to say about it.
>> No.
It's-- I'd just like
to keep tapping.
>> Good.
Even though I feel lonely.
>> Even though I feel lonely.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I feel.
>> Even though I feel
lonely and now alone.
>> I accept my feelings.
>> Even though
they're difficult.
>> Even though I feel lonely.
>> And so alone.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I feel.
>> This lonely feeling.
>> Has caused so much stress.
>> On the side.
Yeah.
This lonely feeling.
>> This lonely feeling.
>> I feel so lonely.
>> So I try to protect myself.
>> I feel so lonely and alone.
>> I have felt lonely
for a long time.
>> And I need comfort.
>> And sometimes I use food.
>> Sometimes I used food.
>> I feel so lonely.
>> And it's all up to me.
>> It's all up to me.
>> The burden is so heavy.
>> Burden is heavy.
>> I feel lonely and alone.
>> I feel so lonely in my life.
>> Take a breath.
[INHALE]
[EXHALE]
Measure the feeling
in your body.
I feel so lonely.
>> I feel so lonely.
>> Zero to 10?
>> Seven.
OK.
So nothing changed.
Nobody's come into your life.
But we're trying to
reduce that feeling, which
triggers the stress, which
causes you to hold on to weight
to have for protection.
OK.
So we'll do it again.
Even though he bothers
me all the time.
>> Even though he
bothers me all the time.
>> And he hovers.
>> And he's in my face.
>> And I'm tired of it.
>> Because it doesn't
make me more productive.
>> I realize this stress.
>> I realize the stress.
>> Is affecting my body.
>> And it upsets me.
>> Even though he's hovering.
>> In my space.
>> In my face.
>> Attacking me.
>> And it makes me mad.
>> And it makes me-- what else?
How else do you feel about it?
>> Stupid.
Like he doesn't trust me to--
>> Good.
>> --handle things.
>> OK.
OK.
He's micromanaging me.
>> He's micromanaging me.
>> And it makes me feel stupid.
>> I accept this reaction.
>> I wish he would go away.
>> I wish he would trust me.
>> I know what I'm doing.
>> I don't need him
over my shoulder.
>> Go away.
>> Leave me alone.
>> I know what I'm doing.
>> And I'm not stupid.
>> I'm not stupid.
>> Good.
So we know this doesn't
change his behavior.
But it changes your
reaction to his behavior,
therefore your stress,
therefore your chemistry,
and however that comes out for
weight and eating with you.
Right?
How does that feel to you now?
It was clearly a 10
in the beginning.
We didn't get a second number.
But how are you
doing now, just when
you picture that aggressive,
intrusive parts about him?
>> More like an eight.
Good.
>> Yeah.
>> Anything else
coming up about it,
about him that's a good point
about it makes you feel stupid?
>> It's just it reminds me of
an incident that happened when I
was a kid.
And he reminds me so
much of that person
that it's hard to disassociate
one with the other,
even though they're
completely different roles.
>> So the memories and the
echoing triggers the old stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
The old incident, when
you think of it right now,
zero to 10, how upset
do you get about it?
>> I get really upset.
>> Really upset.
So even right now, telling
us that he reminds you--
>> But it's gotten to the
point-- it happened when I was,
like, 13 or 14.
At the office, if you show
that you're uncomfortable,
he'll attack you more.
So my hands shake under the
desk when he gets really upset.
And I realize when I
notice that, that's what
I used to do when I was a kid.
You keep things a secret.
So you get these weird
habits that, even when
you're stressed, people
don't pick up on it.
>> OK.
All right.
So think of that
incident back then.
Uncomfortable, how high?
Off the charts?
>> It's a 10.
>> Even though I'm still
afraid of what could come up.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And I accept all my feelings.
>> Even though I'm still
afraid of what might come up.
>> Around trust issues.
>> I deeply and
completely accept myself.
>> Even though I wasn't
enough back then.
>> And I'll never
forgive myself.
>> I deeply and profoundly.
>> Accept.
>> That I must have done
the best I could back then.
>> That I must
[INAUDIBLE] I could.
>> Even though I
think it was terrible.
>> And not enough.
>> Not enough.
>> Even though I wasn't
enough back then.
>> That's what I tell myself.
>> And that's what I
thought they thought.
>> That's what I thought.
>> I accept who I am right now.
>> And I accept my feelings.
>> I accept my feelings.
>> Which I haven't been doing.
>> No.
No.
>> I'm not [INAUDIBLE].
Even though I was
scared back then.
>> Even though I was
>> And it reminds me of now.
>> Which reminds
me of back then.
>> Because they're so similar.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And how I feel.
>> Even though this fear.
>> Is being triggered now.
>> By this guy at the office.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And I think I get it.
>> Even though
they're quite similar.
>> In their fear.
>> And behavior.
>> I'm OK.
>> And I'm different now.
>> But he triggers me.
>> And it reminds me
of that old incident.
>> My hands shake.
>> I feel terrible.
>> I feel terrified.
>> I think he's
really attacking me.
>> And I don't feel safe.
>> And I wasn't safe back then.
>> That's why I'm so upset.
OK.
[CRYING]
>> Sorry.
>> It's all right.
It's perfect, perfect.
It's perfect.
>> I'm really sorry.
>> Please, don't apologize.
You're doing great.
OK?
Keep tapping.
I feel so threatened by him.
>> I feel so threatened by him.
>> He's in my space.
Side of the eye.
He's in my space.
>> He's in my space.
>> And if I show vulnerability.
>> If I show vulnerability.
>> He attacks me more.
>> And it's scary.
>> It's terrifying.
>> I don't feel
safe in the office.
>> Five days a week.
>> And I didn't
feel safe back then.
>> I get the connection now.
>> And it's still scary.
>> And I don't feel safe.
>> I don't feel safe.
>> He attacks me.
>> He's aggressive.
>> And it's not fair.
>> I want to be left alone.
>> Because I know
what I'm doing.
>> Sometimes we can make
the intellectual connection.
But when we make it
emotionally, boom.
We can burst out that way.
And it's really important.
You need to unpack the old
one in order to have him,
no matter what he does, just
not be that big of a presence,
even if he's aggressive.
His behavior is not
going to change.
But you're going to change.
How you doing?
I know that was upsetting.
How are you doing?
>> Good.
>> Good?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> All the issues
we talked about,
saying I don't forgive
myself or I'm angry,
what about somebody hates me?
Somebody's mad at me.
Maybe I'm OK with what I did,
but they don't forgive me.
>> Perfect target.
And how do you feel about it?
>> Right.
I was just about to
say-- let me guess it.
So the more important thing
is my brother hates me.
Right?
So how does it make me feel?
So I feel sad about it.
>> Helpless.
>> I feel helpless.
Even though-- I'm sorry.
Even though--
>> The even though statements,
it always starts here.
>> The setup statement
is always here.
So even though my
brother hates me.
>> And I feel helpless about it.
>> I feel helpless about it.
I deeply and completely--
>> Completely accept--
>> So we always take
it back to ourselves.
>> Yes.
Yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The beauty of it is you
can't really go wrong here.
The more focused you are
on the target, the better.
But if you're not 100%
focused on it, that's OK.
The setup statement, the more
positive it is, the better.
But if it's not 100%
positive, that's OK.
The statements that you make
here, you can say them anytime.
The flips you can say anytime.
You really can't go wrong.
Is there any place where
you can go wrong here?
>> Well, where people go wrong--
and I'll get emails or phone
calls about this-- is they say,
oh, that didn't work on me.
And I say, what was your target?
And they say, low self-esteem.
Low self-esteem is not a target.
It's enormous.
How do you know you
have low self-esteem?
What did they say to you?
What do you feel when you
walk in a room of people?
Oh, I feel embarrassed
or ashamed or less than.
Boom.
We have a target.
>> So you got to zero
in on your target.
>> Zero in.
>> So the art is really
choosing your target.
>> Yes.
>> And if you don't, then it's
going to be less effective.
But it's not going
to backfire on you.
>> No.
No, no.
>> There's no downside to it.
>> No, there's nothing.
>> There's not?
>> You won't feel much.
>> You can't mess up.
You can do better.
But you can't mess up.
>> Right, right.
If you choose the wrong target,
you're just not tuned in.
>> You're not getting
as effective results.
>> You won't get a good number.
>> But it's not going to be--
>> Right.
It won't be effective.
>> OK.
>> Good.
>> But it's not a disaster.
OK, great.
>> What other stressors
are you struggling with?
2011, you get separated.
Fine when he was involved
with the children, but now
he's completely stepped away.
Right?
>> Right.
>> How angry are you about that?
>> Very angry.
Very angry.
>> Yeah.
OK.
Zero to 10?
>> 10.
>> I'm angry at him for--
how would you put it?
I'm angry at him for--
what's your [INAUDIBLE]??
>> Leaving his children.
>> OK.
10?
OK.
Even though I'm angry at him.
>> Even though I'm angry at him.
>> For leaving the kids.
>> For leaving kids.
>> I'm allowed to feel this way.
>> Even though I'm
really angry at him.
>> Really angry at him.
>> And sometimes I use food.
>> Sometimes I use food.
>> To numb that feeling.
>> I accept who I am.
>> Even though I'm
really angry at him.
>> How could he
leave his children?
>> I accept who I am.
>> Eyebrow.
I feel so angry at him.
>> I feel so angry at him.
>> How could he
leave the children?
>> And now I have
to do everything.
>> Now I have to do everything.
>> Now I'm a single parent.
>> I'm a single parent.
>> When I'm not really
a single parent.
>> I'm angry at him.
>> And it doesn't seem fair.
>> It doesn't seem fair.
>> To any of us.
>> Good.
[EXHALE]
How's the anger?
Say it again.
Repeat it.
I'm angry at him for
leaving his children.
>> I'm angry at him for
>> Zero to 10?
>> Six.
OK.
So a big drop.
Good.
Did anything else come up?
So that goes from a 10 to a six.
We're going to keep
working on that.
Anything else come up
about this situation?
Or phrases like how could he?
And it's not fair.
Anything else that resonated?
>> He hurt me personally.
Yeah.
He hurt me.
>> OK.
So we'll say this.
I want you to test
both of these.
He hurt me personally.
>> He hurt me personally.
>> Zero to 10.
>> Nine.
He betrayed me.
>> He betrayed me.
10 plus.
>> 10 plus.
OK.
So then that's
the one we choose,
because it's got
more juice to it.
OK?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So really what you're saying
is it's really about truth
and emotion.
So if you really feel that--
in the new age, personal
growth, development,
it's almost like you deny
it when you're feeling
scared or fearful or anxiety.
So really when you're
making those statements,
that even though I'm scared
that I might have failed
or whatever it is, really
what you're looking for--
and I remember you
said this this morning.
You're talking about truth.
You want to get to truth.
Is it true?
Yes or no.
>> Yes.
>> As a matter of fact,
you would make a statement.
And then you would say to the
participants, is that true?
>> How true does it feel?
>> Zero to 10.
>> So really you're
trying to target truth.
Is that it?
>> Yes, your truth
about your feelings.
So I'll give you an example.
I had a client who was
working with weight loss.
I said, what's the truth
about how you feel?
She said, the truth
is I feel disgusting.
But I can't say it out
loud, because everybody
says don't be silly.
You're not disgusting.
She felt disgusting.
So I let her say, even
though I feel disgusting
and I'm disgusted with myself.
For her, that was her truth.
And once she was able to say
it and I didn't block it,
she went, I'm not
that disgusting.
It started to move.
And that was an
example of truth.
>> And I saw you do the
truth in the reversal, too,
because when you were
working with John--
and he was so pent up and
had such feelings about this.
And then he finally went--
and then you went, maybe
I can accept myself.
And then you stop for a second.
You go, is that true?
>> Right.
>> You're trying to target
the truth is really what.
And by targeting
the truth, you're
able to really get
through to the emotion.
>> Because otherwise, we're
always seeing a bounce back.
>> Yeah.
>> So someone's
doing the happy--
I'm happy and free.
And I'm wonderful.
And the person
doesn't feel that way.
You'll either see this
completely glazed over look
or there's no movement.
>> Yeah.
>> You get the connection
about, if you have trust issues,
you hold on to extra weight,
either out of the biochemistry
that Jon was teaching us about
or out of stress or out of I
don't want anybody
near me anyways.
>> Yes.
>> Right?
So that's another
angle that we can go to
with the tapping for you.
OK?
So I want you to imagine--
you OK right now?
You just tuned into something.
>> I've been thinking
about something.
>> Yeah.
You can tell me.
Tell me what's going on.
>> I was thinking
about my father.
>> You were thinking
about your father.
Mhm.
And what about him?
>> I didn't trust him.
>> You didn't trust him.
>> No.
And my boyfriend, too.
>> You don't trust
your boyfriend?
>> We broke up.
And a lot of people in my life
that I thought I could trust--
>> Betrayed you?
>> Yeah.
OK.
All right.
Now, what we want
to do when there's
a lot of people in your life
who've done the same behavior,
I want you to focus
on one so we don't
get scattered-- and him
and him and this person
and that person.
So I want you to pick either
your boyfriend or your father
right now and that feeling
of not trusting them.
Is your father still alive?
>> No.
OK.
So a feeling of not trusting
him or an incident or an event
or with your boyfriend or that
pervasive feeling of, eh, I
just don't trust, we
have to isolate it.
That's our target.
And we're going to tap on that.
So what would you prefer?
>> My father.
>> Your father.
OK.
So when you think of your father
now, even though he's passed,
do you think of
not trusting him?
Check that charge.
Zero to 10?
>> 10.
>> One of the things we know
about childhood trauma is that
it's easier to blame ourselves
for it than think anything else
could be going on.
Because when we blame
ourselves, then guess what?
We could have done something.
And oddly, there's
something relieving
about saying it's all my fault.
I could have done something.
I could've been different.
If only, if only, if
only, believe it or not,
feels better than, guess what?
Maybe it wasn't all me.
So it's very confusing to kids.
And then you grow up.
And it's not dealt with.
And it still feels
that way to you.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> OK.
What else could you
say about it to us now?
>> It's still going on.
>> What's still going on?
Oh.
>> The past.
>> The past is still going on?
>> The trauma from the past.
>> And how is it still
going on for you?
>> It's just people
are older now,
still doing the same things.
>> So your family members.
>> My family.
Yeah.
>> OK.
Can you say anything
more about it?
Only what you feel
comfortable with.
>> I'm comfortable with it all.
I just can't get it out.
>> OK.
All right, all right.
Eyebrow.
It's still going on.
>> It's still going on.
>> The side.
It's still going on.
>> It's still going on.
>> And I can't take it.
>> But I can't do anything.
>> I can't do anything.
>> I couldn't do anything
when I was too young.
>> And I can't do anything now.
>> I can't do anything now.
>> So maybe it wasn't my
fault when I was young.
>> Maybe it wasn't my
>> I want to save them.
>> I couldn't save
anybody back then.
>> I couldn't save anybody.
>> I couldn't do enough.
>> And I still
feel that way now.
>> It's still going on.
>> I still feel traumatized.
>> I still feel the pain.
>> Because I'm
still watching it.
>> I'm still watching it.
>> It's not over.
>> It's frozen in my body.
>> The images are frozen.
>> The feelings are frozen.
>> I still feel it as
if it were yesterday.
if it was yesterday.
>> Because it's still going on.
>> I'm exhausted.
>> I couldn't save them.
>> And I still can't save them.
[EXHALE]
>> Trauma gets trapped in us.
Right?
It gets trapped in our cells.
We, our society, does
not release trauma.
It's like, no, you're good.
No.
Go to school.
Everything's fine.
And you evidently got so
much, again, from adulthood.
But the childhood
stuff is the trigger.
It's what's really going on.
And then you're a
firefighter in the hardest
company in the tri-state area.
>> Oh, Jesus.
>> So it's like you've got
as much new trauma on top
of the old.
>> And it's a good way
to numb the other trauma.
>> Well, it's very
distracting, isn't it?
Running into burning buildings
can be quite distracting.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
What else can we say about
the childhood trauma?
You see, there was
a shift there when
we were doing that tapping.
>> Yeah.
That felt really good.
>> It did.
Good, good, good.
>> Because you hit
all the right points.
I've realized that I
can hope you change me.
[CRYING]
So people are going to
change when they change.
>> Who do you wish you
could have changed as a kid?
>> My brother.
>> Your brother.
So little kid you, you
wish you could have changed
how he behaved and who he was.
And you couldn't.
And do you feel guilty
about it or more it's
the pain of whatever went on?
>> Little of both.
OK.
Eyebrow.
Hurt and Betrayal.
>> Hurt and betrayal.
>> I thought I was over it.
>> But it still stings.
>> It still stings.
>> It still feels
terrible to me.
>> It still feels terrible.
>> No wonder I protect myself.
>> It still stings.
>> Lower.
Mhm.
No wonder I protect myself.
>> No wonder I protect myself.
>> I'll never
forget the betrayal.
>> I might forget it.
>> I'd like to forget it.
>> I don't feel so hurt.
>> I don't blame myself.
>> And that's a relief.
>> That's a relief.
>> I'm surprised it
still hurts so much.
>> I thought I got over it.
>> And I don't have
to get over it.
>> I don't have to get over it.
>> If I don't want to.
>> But it might be time.
>> It is time.
[INHALE]
[EXHALE]
>> So it may seem like
a small difference.
But the feelings
hurt and betrayal,
when you said the difference,
you totally shot up to a 10
plus plus plus.
So that's the importance of
getting the wording right is
just going to what really
feels accurate to you,
the truth for you.
So say it again.
He totally betrayed me.
>> He totally betrayed me.
>> Zero to 10?
Now, that's still
true, the behavior.
But we're measuring the feeling.
>> Yeah.
More like a six.
>> More like a six.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So it seemed to me, somewhere
along the line when you were
working--
I saw you do it with John.
I saw you do it with
Dave, with Grail.
Somewhere along the
line, you did a flip
where you said, in this
example, am I still angry?
Let's say it was something
that I did wrong,
like I don't forgive
myself because I'm so
mean or something.
Am I really that mean?
Maybe I'm trying
as hard as I can.
Maybe I'm not that mean.
You did this--
what I call a flip.
What would you call that?
A reversal, a flip?
>> Well, when someone has
been tapping on the upsetting
emotion and the
number's going down,
then they have the capacity
to hear the possibility that
they're not such a bad person.
But if you start with
the positive, which
a lot of people
in the field want
to just do the positive
phrases, you completely
negate and stop validating
what we all need,
which is we need to be validated
where we are in our feeling.
So if you do that first,
it's going to bounce off.
>> OK.
So probably my guess is you're
not in a state to do that.
If you look at where
John was, he could never
get to this place where he'd
say, it's OK what I did.
>> We got to it.
>> No, in the beginning.
But I guess what happens
at a certain point,
you sense-- because you've got
20 years experience in this.
And then you're truly
brilliant at it.
You sensed there was a certain
point where he could flip.
And he could forgive himself.
>> Yes.
So part of it is intuitive.
Part of it is practice.
The other part is if I suggest
after a couple of rounds when
John was saying I wasn't
enough, I was never enough,
and I'm still not enough,
if after a couple of rounds
I feel like I could
suggest maybe I was enough,
maybe I did everything I
could, there are two options.
I'm either going to be wrong,
and he's going to reject that.
And I'll see it in his face.
Or it's going to land
the way it did with him.
And he said, you know what?
I have done enough.
The problem with doing it too
quickly, the flip to, quote,
"positive statements," or
maybe I could forgive myself,
it's a possibility
that I could consider
forgiving myself and
letting myself off the hook.
If you do that too soon,
the person pushes back.
And if you're doing
it on yourself,
you will push back and
say, please, that's--
please.
So that's why you want
to do a couple of rounds
on the target--
the issue, the anger, the
hurt, the guilt, the craving,
the feeling out of control.
Do a couple of rounds first.
Then you can start to
introduce something
more positive or something
more cognitively digestible
for them.
You know what?
Maybe I did do the best I could
when I was eight years old.
>> Right.
So with the flip or reversal or
whatever you want to call it,
you can't really
go wrong with that.
It's just that if you do it
and it doesn't sit with you,
it'll bounce back.
So you want to try the
reversal at different times
until it doesn't bounce back.
And once it doesn't
bounce back, then you're
making some real progress.
>> How is it to talk
about the old incident?
>> I hate it.
>> You hate it.
OK.
>> Yeah.
>> You hate it.
I waited so long to tell anyone.
>> What happened.
You waited so long
to tell anyone.
>> But they said it was my fault
and that it was too late to do
anything.
And they just didn't believe me.
So I hate talking
about it, because it
doesn't change anything.
>> OK.
All right.
Mhm.
And then that resistance
to ever talking about it
and never getting it
validated gets trapped.
There was an experience.
You're saying, why
would I talk about it?
I was blamed.
Did you believe them when
they said it was your fault?
Is there a part of you
that thought maybe?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
I want you to test that, OK?
It was my fault.
>> It was my fault.
>> How true does it feel?
How upsetting does that
feel as a yes for you?
>> It's what I kind of made
peace with and closed it off
with.
>> That it's your
fault. All right.
OK.
Even though I'm convinced
it was my fault.
>> Even though I'm
convinced it was my fault.
>> There's a part of
me that isn't sure.
>> And that triggers
a lot of feelings.
>> Even though I
waited a long time.
>> And when I
finally told someone.
>> They said it was my fault.
>> No wonder I
won't talk about it.
>> I see that it's connected
to my situation now.
>> And part of that's relieving.
Part of that's relieving.
>> Part of that's relieving.
>> Because I'm going
to unpack both of them.
>> And I'm going to take
the sting out of both.
>> I'm going to take
>> This is not my fault.
>> Maybe it is.
>> It's not my fault.
>> But they said it was.
>> So what if it is my fault?
>> What if it isn't?
>> And I've spent all
these years blaming myself.
>> What if it wasn't my fault?
>> I understand why
I didn't tell anyone.
>> It was too scary.
>> And too threatening.
>> He was a big deal.
>> It was a big deal?
OK.
>> Yeah.
>> He was a big deal.
>> I couldn't tell anyone.
>> And when I did,
I got in trouble.
>> All those old memories.
>> And old feelings.
>> And I don't like
what's happening now.
>> I don't like
>> He hovers.
>> And he criticizes.
>> And he picks up
when I'm uncomfortable.
>> He picks up when
I'm uncomfortable.
>> And my hands shake.
>> Which makes me
feel vulnerable.
>> And weak.
>> And he picks it up.
>> I hate the cycle.
>> But I feel a
little different.
>> He's not changing.
>> But I might.
>> And I am smart.
>> And I'm doing a lot.
>> And I know what I'm doing.
>> I know what I'm doing.
>> So leave me alone.
>> So this is how we straddle
a past incident with a current.
The current is totally
triggering her.
But we've got to get
both of them down,
or else they just keep
seesawing back and forth.
>> Yeah.
>> So the old incident
that feels so terrible,
how are you doing on it now?
You've told us about
what it felt like.
And then you told someone
finally, a while later,
and they blamed you.
The facts don't change.
How do you feel about it?
>> Kind of like
it's in the past.
Like it really doesn't
touch me anymore.
It's just kind of like a shadow.
>> A shadow.
And that's different
than 10 minutes ago.
It feels very real.
You live it.
When people make
you feel unsafe,
it's a very weird feeling, to
feel like somebody is waiting
for you to drop your guard.
>> I hate these feelings.
>> They've caused me
anxiety my whole life.
>> And pain.
>> Pain.
>> And I wish they
would go away.
>> The truth is I
didn't trust them.
>> And I shouldn't.
>> And I shouldn't have.
>> These trust issues
with my father.
>> I've had them my whole life.
[INHALE]
[EXHALE]
>> So at 10 plus plus plus,
there's no rationality.
It's terror.
It comes from the inside, and
you want to protect yourself.
You get it down
even to an eight,
and you may even have
switched a little bit more.
>> Yeah.
>> What's going on there?
>> I feel like I'm not
inside of it anymore.
>> Not inside of it anymore.
Interesting.
>> I feel less anxiety,
maybe even a six or a seven.
And I'm thinking about he
should protect the family.
I had to protect the family.
>> You became the protector.
>> I had to.
>> You had to.
OK.
Anything else?
>> I wanted to.
>> You wanted to,
but he wasn't around.
He wasn't good at doing it.
So you had to take over.
>> Later.
Yes.
>> And how do you
feel about that?
What's the feeling--
>> I'm angry.
>> You're angry.
OK.
10?
I'm going to just
assume it's a 10.
All right?
>> Yes.
>> Yep.
Good.
Even though I'm angry at him.
>> Even though I'm angry at him.
>> For not protecting
the family.
>> And I had to take over.
>> I had to take over.
>> I accept that I'm angry.
>> I accept I'm angry.
>> Even though I don't
like my anger much.
>> Even though I
don't like my anger.
>> It scares me.
>> And it scares me.
>> I accept who I am.
>> And I'm allowed
to feel my feelings.
>> Even though I
feel angry at him.
>> Even though I'm angry at him.
>> And resentful.
>> How could he leave us?
And I mean emotional.
>> How could he not protect.
>> Not protect us.
I deeply and completely.
>> I deeply and completely.
>> Accept me.
>> My feelings.
>> And what I
thought I had to do.
>> What I thought I had to do.
>> Eyebrow.
I'm angry at my father.
>> I'm angry at my father.
>> And it's hard to say.
>> And it's hard to feel.
>> It's hard to feel.
>> But I'm angry at my father.
>> I'm angry at my father.
>> Angry and resentful.
>> That I had to step
in and be the protector.
>> That I felt like
I was the protector.
>> Of the family.
I had to step in and
protect the family.
>> I had to step in
and protect the family.
>> And I'm still angry about it.
>> I'm still angry.
>> And I'm still
protecting them.
>> I was still
protecting everybody.
>> So that's true.
You're still doing it.
Right?
>> Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now let's talk a
little bit about cravings.
Typically with
tapping, when someone
goes to tapping for
weight loss, they're
always talking about cravings
and behavior modification.
Even though I want
that chocolate cake,
I deeply and completely
accept myself.
And I think we really
demonstrated this morning
that that's not the real issues.
But everybody talks about that.
And that's all they think about.
I'm wondering, is
there a place for that
in weight loss and the
behavior modification
and the fighting the cravings?
Is there a place for that, even
though it's not the real issues
that we're dealing with?
Do you work on that capacity?
If so, how would we
do something like.
>> Yes.
Well, I do.
Because when people come
to me for weight loss,
they've tried everything.
They're exhausted
and they're ashamed.
So when I show
them the chocolate,
we tap on their craving.
And their craving
starts to go down.
They say, this is different.
And that's how I work.
When I first worked
with clients,
I didn't know what I was doing.
So I would just do cravings.
Then what happens when the
craving gets low enough,
the stress comes up.
The fear comes up.
I had one woman say to me,
oh, it's not about the donuts
anymore.
I get it.
And something about her
father started to come up.
Because the craving feels
like it's physiological only,
but we know, and as
you were describing,
it comes from stress.
>> That's really interesting.
So what you're saying is
when you first started,
you used the cravings
as a doorway.
And you didn't even know that
it was going to be a doorway.
And that's how you
discovered that there's
so many more issues
to weight loss
and to weight than
just the cravings.
But it's a good way that you
talk about, hey, the craving's
on, but something else.
>> Yes.
Because cravings are so intense
and they really feel out
of control, they can't make the
connection that it's stress,
anger, hurt, childhood issues.
They can't make the connection
because the craving feels out
of control at the
time and so intense.
So when we can get
that down, then they
can start to look
at the other pieces.
It's like when
you're screaming mad,
you're not going to
make a good choice.
>> It's like when you're doing
a tapping sequence and something
else is jumping out.
And you can't focus.
So this lady that
comes to you, she
doesn't want to talk about
her childhood or the fact
that her father didn't
love her, whatever it was.
And the cravings are
all she can focus on.
So you use tapping
for cravings as a way
to get under that and into
some of the real issues.
>> Yes.
Yes.
And also, talking to them about
how the cravings feel real,
but they're just a distraction.
And people say no, no, no.
But it's real.
I know it's real.
I've had them.
I know what it feels like.
But if the craving weren't going
on right now, what do you think
might come up?
And they go, how did you know?
Well, I don't know anything.
I just met you.
And they say yes.
I've got an issue
that I'm dealing with
or that I don't want to
deal with, because that's
what we kept saying this
morning is, remember,
we understand that food works.
It works to temporarily
squash the feelings.
If that's your goal
because it's too painful,
that's how you put on one pound,
two pound, 100 pounds, 200.
That's how you do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So there's one story.
I worked with someone in the
very beginning on weight loss.
And she had tried everything.
Hypnosis, pills, every
diet in the world.
And she grew up in a
family where there were
padlocks on the refrigerator.
>> I'm famililar with that.
>> And the pantry, all that.
And she and all of her
sisters had a weight problem.
And they had since
they were children.
And when we started
doing the tapping,
we started on cravings.
But we moved into the
stress of her life,
the stress with her elderly
parents and her siblings
and her children
and a new husband,
because they had a
step-combined family.
And she kept saying,
why am I keeping
the weight off this time?
What's different?
>> Amazing.
>> And at that point, I
didn't say much about tapping.
I just said it's a
stress relief technique.
Let's just do it.
And I didn't do a whole lot
of background explanation.
And she was thrilled because
she felt not so crazy anymore,
because she was in control.
She ate when she was
hungry, basically,
and didn't chase food all
around the way she had.
A key for her was deprivation.
So that thing about--
>> Oh, the padlocks.
Yeah.
No.
I'm very familiar
with that situation.
That's a common situation.
And it just causes a
lifetime of deprivation.
>> And the rebellion.
>> And rebellion.
Exactly.
But the fact that you were able
to deal with it by just going
deeper and deeper
into the stress
by working through the tapping.
>> But when the client comes
back week after week and says
I'm different and I'm
doing things differently,
that's when you listen.
That's when, as a
psychotherapist,
you wake up and say, something's
going on here that's different.
Because I was very skeptical
in the beginning, too--
what is this silly
tapping on acupunc--
what are you talking about?
I had to be trained in
it and then try it myself
to get my own examples
and my own results
with clients as
well as with myself.
>> The examples are amazing.
They really are.
>> When you think of taking
care of your mother and you feel
helpless, how high, zero to 10?
>> 10.
OK.
When you think of your brother
and trying to take care of him
now, how high?
It can be the same.
But I just want to
make sure there's--
>> Yeah, it's about a 10.
>> 10.
OK.
So you have two 10's
in your adult life.
And I'm sure
there's more, right?
>> Yeah.
Living together, too.
>> They're living together?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> All right.
Karate chop.
Even though I feel helpless now.
>> Even though I
feel helpless now.
>> I can't fix them.
>> I can't take care of them.
>> I can't take care.
>> And I feel guilty.
Is that true?
>> Yeah.
>> Guilty as well as helpless.
And helpless.
I deeply and profoundly.
>> I deeply and profoundly.
>> Accept.
>> That I'm in a better place.
>> And I'm healthier.
>> And sometimes
I don't like that.
>> Heh.
Sometimes I don't like that.
>> I feel guilty.
>> Even though I feel helpless.
>> That I'm not
helping them more.
>> That I can't do it.
>> I don't know what it takes.
>> I accept where
I am and who I am.
>> Even though I still
have helpless feelings.
>> About taking care of them.
>> I accept who I am.
>> What if I gave
myself compassion?
>> What if I recognized
all that I'm doing?
>> And all that I'm doing well.
>> And all that up do it well.
>> What if I recognized
how strong I truly am?
>> Betrayal or not.
>> Ex-husband or not.
>> I'm really stronger
than I thought.
than I though.
>> But I've been
carrying a big burden.
>> I've been carrying
a big burden.
>> And I need some relief.
>> I need some relief.
>> And I need some compassion.
>> I need some compassion.
>> A little self-forgiveness.
>> A little self-love.
>> I've been pretty
hard on myself.
>> And I'm exhausted.
>> I am exhausted.
>> All of it's OK.
>> And I'm OK with all
the feelings I have.
>> I'm OK with all
>> Of course I was angry.
>> Of course I am angry.
>> I had to step in.
>> That's not fair.
>> Why didn't he protect us?
>> Why did I have
to be the protector?
>> All this anger at my father.
>> That I've been carrying
around for half a century.
>> Get out of my space.
>> Get out of me space.
>> Get out of my face.
>> I am enough.
>> I'm enough,
whatever I'm doing.
>> I am enough,
>> And I'm doing a great job.
>> And you're lucky to
have me on the team.
[LAUGHS]
>> And you're lucky to
have me on the team.
>> So don't ruin it.
>> Get out of my face.
>> My job is me.
>> And my family.
>> And I love my family.
>> And I want to
be with my family.
>> And I don't want to
give any more energy.
>> I don't want to
>> To people who
don't want to change.
>> Because it doesn't work.
>> And I'm exhausted.
>> So I would say
homework for you,
any remaining anger about
it, you got it down so far,
you were like, well,
I don't feel angry.
I feel kind of sorry
for him, right?
Any remaining stuff
on the loneliness?
Totally tappable issue, any of
those issues that we discussed.
But if there's anything
left sticky on the betrayal,
keep doing it
until it bores you,
until the topic is like,
please, that is in the past.
So where is that now,
the feelings of betrayal?
>> Low.
Good.
You may not feel the
need to go there.
But that would be up to you.
So that would be homework.
So that's the direction.
Pick the feeling.
Pick the frustration,
the betrayal,
and tap on that
until they're so low,
it's hard to get your attention.
And usually three, two,
or one is pretty hard
to get your attention.
All right?
>> Thank you.
>> Nice.
Thanks, Jackie.
Go back to the old incident.
Is it still a five, the
upset when you think of it?
>> Not really.
>> What's it feel like?
>> It just feels like
it's in the past.
Like it just happened
and it just is.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah.
>> It's such a relief.
[LAUGHS]
>> Good.
Yes.
I would think so.
Excellent.
And watch for your
hands shaking,
because he's not going to
have the same effect on you,
because we dropped the old one.
So he's not going to
have the same effect.
You might shake a little.
You might not at all and
go, wow, it's not happening.
But look for
physiological changes
where you feel more in command,
more safe, and more yourself.
They're lucky to have--
I never met you.
And I know they're
lucky to have you.
You know that.
Right.
>> A little bit.
[LAUGHS]
We'll work on that later.
[INAUDIBLE],, thank
you very, very much.
>> Thank you.
>> This is really,
really important.
How are you doing
overall emotionally?
We've done some
pretty big issues.
How are you doing?
>> All right.
I feel a little calmer.
>> A little calmer, good.
>> Much calmer.
I don't feel angry at my father.
>> You don't feel any anger?
>> No.
>> So let's test you, OK?
I'm angry at my father.
>> I'm angry at my father.
>> And I should be.
And I don't-- I
don't have anger.
That looks like a zero to me.
Not really.
>> I'm not even angry at him.
I feel sorry for him.
>> Feel sorry for him.
>> Because he missed
out on so much.
I'm not sure how to go
take care of myself.
But I think I can try.
>> Well, we can't possibly do it
if the guilt is a eight, nine,
or 10.
We just simply won't do it.
All right?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Now I want to go back and
test the first thing we did,
the trust issues.
We'll just see what kind
of a zing in your body
you get for that.
OK?
I have these trust issues.
>> I have these trust issues.
I'm OK.
>> I know.
I could see.
Did you see her face?
Did you see the difference?
You're almost looking for it.
Really?
I did?
>> I was looking to see if
I had a jump inside or not.
I'm OK.
I have to think about that.
>> Good.
That's good.
Do you feel like there's
been enough relief that you--
>> Yes.
>> You do?
>> Yeah.
Just that I was
able to get it out.
It has been pent up.
And it's just been overwhelming.
>> I just want to re-emphasize
a point that we've talked about
a number of times.
We're making a DVD here on
tapping for weight loss.
And if you notice, we haven't
talked about cravings.
[LAUGHS]
We haven't talking about
behavior modification,
what to do when you're
walking past a donut shop.
We haven't talked about
any of that stuff.
You focus on exactly what you're
doing right now, releasing
these intense, powerful
emotions that are causing all
this chemistry in your body.
And you are never going to have
to count another calorie again.
You're not going to have
to worry about a craving.
This is dealing with
the real issues.
And it all goes away.
>> Yeah.
Time to take care of me.
>> Really powerful,
really powerful work.
Great job.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm giving a hug.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Before the tapping session,
I was full of stress and anger.
>> I was feeling extremely
anxious and panicked.
>> Tight.
I just felt very tight.
>> I just felt on edge and like
there was a lot of stuff about
to spill over.
>> Really right before Carol
started asking me questions,
I was very, very nervous.
>> I almost talked myself
out of coming today,
because I think I
had, in my head,
created that this was going
to be some voodoo woo-woo.
And the fear of
coming was about, oh,
because somebody
might see me cry.
And I'm glad that I did,
because I got to see me crying.
>> Right now, I'm feeling much
more at ease and much calmer.
>> The emotions that I wasn't
expecting to well up were moved
and released.
I didn't expect it.
And that was a breakthrough.
>> I feel a lot
better about myself.
I didn't think I was going
to talk about the things
I talked about.
>> I feel much calmer.
And I feel I have a
way to lose weight.
>> Tapping is easier
than you think.
It's more of an immediate
relief than you would think.
>> I have a sense of hope and
that there's possibilities.
I really feel that
I've released things.
Things came up I had no idea of.
And I feel like they're gone.
>> It's so different from
anything that I've certainly
come into contact with before.
Here, touch these special
places on your face.
And it'll make a difference.
That's strange.
But I think at the end, you're
like, oh, well, it works.
That's surprising.
>> For someone who thinks
tapping is not for them,
it does look weird.
It definitely seems strange.
But the effects that you
get from it, the feelings
that you get from it,
the release of some
of the stresses you have inside
you are definitely profound.
You might want to get over
the feeling of feeling
silly doing it,
because it's definitely
something that works.
>> If I met somebody who
was skeptical about tapping,
I'd say, if you don't feel
better, I'll buy you a drink.
And if you do feel
better, you buy me one.
[LAUGHS]
>> And now I feel I'm going to
have a huge opportunity to be
fit and trim, because I'm not
going to be carrying around all
the this anxiety and stress.
And I have the tools to be able
to do this when I do encounter
something that's stressful.
>> At the very
least, it's calming.
And at its best, it's
a tool that you'll
have for the rest of your life
that you need less than 15
minutes to pick up.
>> I do see tapping being
a definite useful tool
for the future just in the
benefits that I got so quickly.
>> I will definitely apply
tapping in the future.
>> This workshop has been
more than I could have ever
expected.
It has been beyond
any expectation
and a wonderful experience.
>> I really do feel
that there is hope,
that I have a tool that I can
manage my stress and anxiety.
And I think it's going to
be amazing to tap into it,
no pun intended.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]